Here's a simplified step-by-step guide to setting up a Docker Swarm:

Prerequisites
    Docker Installed: Ensure Docker is installed on all machines in the swarm. You can check by running:


    docker --version
    Multiple Machines: At least two machines are required: one manager node and one or more worker nodes. These can be physical machines, virtual machines, or cloud instances.

Step 1: Initialize the Swarm
    1. Select the Manager Node: Pick one machine to act as the manager node.

    2. Initialize Swarm: Run the following command on the manager node:

        docker swarm init --advertise-addr <MANAGER-IP>

        Replace <MANAGER-IP> with the manager node's IP address.

    3. Get the Join Token: After initialization, Docker will provide a command to join other nodes to the swarm, which looks like this:

        docker swarm join --token <SWARM-TOKEN> <MANAGER-IP>:2377

Step 2: Join Worker Nodes
    1. Run Join Command: On each worker node, run the join command you received after initializing the swarm:

        docker swarm join --token <SWARM-TOKEN> <MANAGER-IP>:2377

    2. Verify Nodes: On the manager node, confirm that the nodes have joined by running:

        docker node ls

        You should see all nodes listed with their status and roles.

Step 3: Deploy a Simple Service
    1. Create a Service: Deploy a test service on the manager node to ensure everything is working:

        docker service create --name helloworld --replicas 3 nginx

        This creates a service named helloworld with 3 replicas of an Nginx container.

    2. Check Service Status: Verify the service status:
    
        docker service ls
        To see the running tasks, use:

        docker service ps helloworld

Step 4: Scale the Service
    1. Scale the Service: Change the number of replicas. For example, to scale to 5 replicas:

        docker service scale helloworld=5
        
    2. Verify Scaling: Check the status again to confirm scaling:

        docker service ps helloworld

Step 5: Manage the Swarm
    1. Promote a Worker to Manager (optional): On the manager node, run:

        docker node promote <NODE-ID>
    
    2. Demote a Manager to Worker (optional):

        docker node demote <NODE-ID>

Step 6: Clean Up
    1. Remove the Service: To remove the service:

        docker service rm helloworld

    2. Leave the Swarm: On worker nodes:

            docker swarm leave

        On the manager node:

            docker swarm leave --force